So, to see this in action, we are going to use the same
application that we saw previously, except here,
rather than allowing access based on the location of a
file, for one of these JAR files,
we allow access based on who signed it. And the person signing it will be me.
So how do we do that?
So, following the steps, we've already created a JAR file.
So the next step, in that case, is to generate the keys. And
we generate keys in Java by using a tool called keytool, and
our command‑line looks like this.
So here we're saying generate some keys, we store these keys in a keystore that,
in this case, is going to be called signerstore, and whenever we create keys,
we give these keys,
if you like, a name, this is called the alias, and in this case,
the alias we give these keys is going to be called signFiles.
So the keystore needs a password,
so I give it a password here, and we need to enter it again.
And then we generate information that's going to go on the
certificate that we create here.
We're creating a public key, private key pair, that's
stored as a certificate, and that certificate needs data.
We need to enter that data here.
Now that we've entered that data, it asks us for a password for this key.
That's the original password for the keystore, and now within the
keystore, we're storing keys, and we can store this with the same
password or with a different password. If I just hit Enter here,
they'll store them with the same password.
So once I have that, I can now sign the JAR file.
So if I go to the out\artifacts folder, this is where my JAR files are stored.
There's a file here called DataAccess.jar, and
that's the file I'm going to sign.
So we sign the JAR file using another tool called
jarsigner, and that command looks like this.
So here we're saying this is the name of the keystore, I want to
create a signed jar called sDataAccess.jar. The input to this is the
file called DataAccess.jar, and I want to use the signFiles key that
I stored in this keystore.
And if I do that,
it'll ask me for the password, and then it will create the
signed jar file for me. And if I do a DIR here,
we see we have a file called sDataAccess.jar.
So here are my JAR files, and if I look inside sDataAccess.jar, and the
easiest way to do that is to rename it to a .zip file, and look inside
here, inside the META.INF folder, we have these three files. There's a
manifest and information about the signing.
If I take that manifest file,
we can see inside here it's got information about the the signing of the files.
In this case, it says it's got a SHA‑256 digest. This is what's
being used to sign this code inside here.
So the next step was to export the certificate, and we
do this again using the keytool.
So in this case,
we do keytool ‑export, we specify the name of the keystore, we specify
the name we gave to the files inside the keystore, in this case,
signFiles, and we also give it a certificate name.
So I'm going to call this kevin.cer. Enter the password, and then we
have a file called kevin.cer, and there it is.
So let's go and try and use this signed JAR file.
So if I change into the directory where my class files are stored,
so I do an ls here, this is where the files are.
So, there's a com\knowledgespike\Main.class.
That's the location of the main Runner for this application.
So from here, I can try and run the application.
So, to run this application, we set the class path to be the current
directory, we add on the sDataAccess.jar on the services.jar, we apply a
security manager, and we apply a policy file. If we take a look at that
policy file, at the moment in here,
we grant access to service.jar, and we grant access to
the class files in the Runner folder.
So if I try and execute the code here,
then we get a security exception. We get an access control
exception, and it's telling us we can't write to this file,
we can't write a temp\message.txt.
So what I now need to do is add an entry into this policy file that gives
the signed JAR file permission to write to this file.
So, to run this code, I have to do two things.
I have to edit the policy file to give sDataAccess
permission to access this file.
Before we do that,
I need to import the certificate into a keystore for the receiver.
So remember, the certificate is stored in a file called kevin.cer, and
the import command, again, is done with keytool.
So here I'm going to create a different keystore.
So we're imagining that the person who created this code is
on one machine and we are on a different machine, so we
will have different keystores.
So in this case, we do an import. We're importing kevin.cer. We're given the
keystore name of receiverstore. We give it a different alias.
So we just pick whatever alias we want for this import. I'm just
going to call this thing kevin as part of the import. We again need
to add a password for our file here, so enter a password for this.
This is a new keystore. It gives me some information about the certificate,
and asks me, do I want to trust it? I say yes.
And again, if I do ls here, we now have a keystore called receiverstore.
Once I have that,
I can try running the code again, which we now at least have the
certificate in place. Again, it still fails, because, again,
we haven't yet set up the policy file to trust this code.
So in the policy file, we need to add two things.
We first need to tell the security manager where the keystore lives,
and that's added with a keystore entry in the policy file. And again,
we just give it the name of the, the fully
qualified name to the policy file here.
So it's in my demos folder and it's called receiverstore.
Jks at the end here means Java Key Store,
so the type of the keystore is the Java Key Store. There may
be other keystores that could be used.
Once we have that, we need to add our grant.
So the grant, in this case,
is another grant block, so it'll say grant, and it'll
give write permission to this file.
But now,
rather than saying code base here, we're going to say signedBy. And
a signedBy and the value we pass here is the alias that we use to
store the key inside this keystore.
And then once we have that in place,
we should now be able to run the code again, and it now works.
So now the DataAccess.jar file, the sDataAccess.jar file is trusted through
the fact that it's been signed. And a simple test to show that it is the
sDataAccess.jar file will be to go back here and just make this DataAccess.jar
and run that, and that code fails because we don't now have an entry for
DataAccess.jar inside the policy file.
So now that we've seen how to set up signed JAR files, in the next
module, we'll see how to create our own permissions.
So even though Java comes with many built‑in permissions,
they may not be enough.
You may need to write your own permission for specific things, and we'll see how we do that.